Mobile Menace Monday: Malicious clicker with extra maliciousness included a new malicious clicker has emerged onto third-party app stores. Chinese in origin, the malicious app uses heavy obfuscation and poses as a battery optimizer app. We classify is as Android/Trojan.Clicker.hyj.
The code itself used to be written in Delphi and Visual Basic 6, with a lot of big images inside making it a huge file, as well as poor exception handling where the process would regularly crash. Nowadays, the scenario is not the same; the attackers are investing time and money to develop solutions where the malicious payload is completely hidden under a lot of obfuscation and code protection. They do still use Delphi and VB, but have also adopted other languages like .NET and the code quality is much better than before, making it clear to us that they have moved to a new level.
OfficeMalScanner.exe is the main binary used to scan office documents for malicious behavior. The program is capable of scanning for shellcode, embedded PE files, OLE streams, and can also disassemble shellcode as well as brute force encrypted bytes (using ADD, XOR, and ROL). $[para].
Although others have reported that a file is created with instructions on paying the ransom, as well as an alert shown, and even text-to-speech used to inform the user they have been infected with ransomware, I was unable to duplicate any of these, despite waiting quite a while for the ransomware to finish. Screenshot of encryption message posted to RUTracker forum. Capabilities.
Once connected, infect the phone with a mobile version of the Sputnik main component. Wait for a specially crafted Microsoft Office or PDF document and execute a malicious payload embedded in that document, implementing a one-way covert channel of communication that can be used to restore control of the infected machine. Record all the keystrokes, make screenshots.
Record all the keystrokes, make screenshots. Execute additional encrypted modules according to a pre-defined schedule. Retrieve e-mail messages and attachments from Microsoft Outlook and from reachable mail servers using previously obtained credentials.
waiting for the iPhone or Nokia mobile to connect. These tasks are provided as PE EXE files and are installed to the infected machine. Persistent tasks.
however, it’s not; the path still needs to be surrounded by quotation marks, researchers said. what further facilitates the current attack is that bonjour has its own installation entry in the installed software section, as well as a scheduled task to execute the process. in many cases, even if a system uninstalled itunes years ago, the bonjour component remains silently un-updated and still working in the background, researchers said.
dead drop resolvers have been used by multiple threat actor groups using various malware families and those behind patchwork are well versed with this tactic. this tactic uses public web services to host content that contains encoded commands that are decoded by the malware. $[para].
Area41 doesn't ring a bell? Gruezi from Zurich, Switzerland, where the Area41 conference is currently being held. Well, this event went under a renaming process and was formerly known as Hashdays, that took place in Lucerne.
Fiesta exploit kit does the splits. It looks like the Silverlight exploit is involved in creating the split from the single encoded stream. Let’s take a closer look at the Silverlight exploit.
$[para]. Poweliks uses a “NULL” Runkey (which makes the content invisible) in the registry to run a JavaScript and uses PowerShell to run an encoded script hidden elsewhere in the registry. It steals system information and has the ability to download and install other malware.
PhaseBot can execute commands issued by the botnet operator. Kovter uses non-ASCII characters to create unreadable registry keys that hold obfuscated JavaScript. The JavaScript in turn executes PowerShell loading a script that was created as well.
Summary. We discussed the most well-known fileless infections to date and gave brief descriptions of how they operate. For more elaborate descriptions of the above mentioned fileless infections, we encourage you to check out the following links.
While writing this article, another sample of emdivi t20 has been found. It employs AES in addition to SID tricks, making it difficult to decrypt sensitive data. In order to fight back against this cyber-espionage, Kaspersky Lab will continue its research.
Most of the strings in ADVSTORESHELL are encrypted with an XOR-based algorithm. Most of the strings in ADVSTORESHELL are encrypted with an XOR-based algorithm; some strings are also encrypted with 3DES and reversed. API function names are also reversed, presumably to avoid detection in memory.
This is probably the most common threat we’ve seen involving Steam. Social engineering plays a key role in pulling off a successful scam, as you have seen in Joe’s case, some of the noteworthy ones are quite sophisticated. There’s are two types of fraud we have see at play so far, both involving either bots, impersonators, holders of hacked accounts, or gamers with malicious intent in general:.
$[para]. Valve, the company behind Steam, has yet to address majority of the threats on its gaming platform. While we wait, the community can only look after themselves and each other, helping as much as they can to keep everyone safe and the platform as threat-free as possible.
These macros vary in sophistication from performing the download and execution of hosted binaries, to dropping the binaries themselves. In this campaign we see the latter where the document ships an entire encoded binary within the text box of a VBA macro form. All documents throughout this campaign have used a common naming convention in the following formats.
It extracts and decrypts the stage 3 malware, which is stored in encrypted resources such as fake dialog boxes. The extraction method is the same, but the encryption algorithm (also XOR) is much simpler. The new payload is decrypted, remapped, and executed in memory, and represents the installation and persistence stage of the malware.