Several C&C servers exist, scattered around the world. We have counted about a dozen different C&C domains, run on several different servers. There could also be other related domains, which could possibly bring the total to around 80 different domains being used by the malware to contact the C&C.
We decided to have a close look at the HTTP requests sent to  the C&C server, and in them we found the names of the logs that the  keyloggers sent to the C&C server. In many cases, the logs contained the  name of the organization which owned the infected computer and the victims’  contacts (We could also find the victims’ IP addresses using the vulnerability  in the C&C server). This information helped us contact other victims (most  of them were accountants at SMBs) and warn them that their computers were  infected.
It allows users to connect to essential health services in India. The discovered application tries to connect to the same malicious URL to get the C2 IP address. hxxp://tryanotherhorse[.]com/config.txt.
An unusual  decision considering that the Qt framework is encountered comparatively rarely  on users’ computers. It turns out that after starting  Trojan-Ransom.OSX.FileCoder.a finds file .d163c127f802d4c2a2abae36a429277b in  the home directory of the user and decrypts it using the AES algorithm. The secret cypher key is stored in the code  of the Trojan and does not change.
The secret cypher key is stored in the code  of the Trojan and does not change. The  decoded file is saved under the name  decrypted-d163c127f802d4c2a2abae36a429277b. Further Trojan-Ransom.OSX.FileCoder.a encrypts the file 8c8790f8d6377dd45b83b113809584a2 using the  same code and saves it with the name encrypted-8c8790f8d6377dd45b83b113809584a2.
In Brazil, Mispadu also distributes a malicious Google Chrome extension. ESET found that the extension’s goal is to steal payment-card information and sensitive banking data, but also to steal money from its victims by compromising the county’s Boleto online payment system. The extension ironically purports to be a Chrome protection utility named “Securty [sic] System 1.0.” Researchers found that it consists of three malicious JavaScript files.
Those files can be used to set up a webpage imitating AreaVIP (a tabloid website in Brazil) and to force a fake Adobe Flash Player update on its potential victims. We have not observed that campaign in the wild and believe it may be a setup for the future. Latin America has emerged as a hotbed of innovative banking malware.
This module doesn’t change registry, nor does it created any local files. After completing FTP directory scanning and file retrieval, the module sends logs and collected files to the C&C server. The connection options are retrieved from the configuration (resource):.
$[para]. After filling the appropriate format string and sending it to the C&C, the bot checks the HTTP response code. If the returned code is different than 200 (OK), 403 (Forbidden), or 404 (Not found), then it tries again.
The malware communicates with a legitimate compromised WordPress-based website and gets four byte length commands from URL like “http://<legitimate domain>/wp-includes/Requests/Socks.php”. First, the malware beacons to its C2 and gets the command to execute as an answer. $[para].
The fact that it correctly handles the byte order (swapping the data, if required) and traverses all EXIF records skipping them correctly, and that the GPS data is converted to a string and then back to integers most likely indicates that the code was reused from an EXIF-parsing library or toolkit. For the values provided here, the code will produce the IP address “217.12.202.40” that is a known C&C of VPNFilter. $[para].
Of course, in case this fails, the malware will indeed lookup the hardcoded domain (toknowall[.]com). It may be worth pointing that in the past, the BlackEnergy APT devs have shown a preference for using IP addresses for C&C instead of hardcoded domain names, which can be easily sinkholed. To analyse the EXIF processing mechanism, we looked into the sample 5f358afee76f2a74b1a3443c6012b27b, mentioned in the Talos blog.
If this fails, the malware tries fetching an image file from a hardcoded domain, toknowall[.]com. This C2 domain is currently sinkholed by the FBI. If that fails as well, the malware goes into a passive backdoor mode, in which it processes network traffic on the infected device waiting for the attacker’s commands.
Mitigation and detection information. Quite essential in stopping these attacks is the Kaspersky System Watcher component. The System Watcher component has the ability to rollback the changes done by ransomware in the event that a malicious sample managed to bypass other defenses.
Payment is accepted in Bitcoin only. For more information, click. Please check the current price of Bitcoin and buy some bitcoins.
Your important files are encrypted. Many of your documents, photos, videos, databases and other files are no longer accessible because they have been encrypted. Maybe you are busy looking for a way to.
The email C2 channel supplements the HTTP and DNS-tunneling C2 channels seen in other RDAT samples, researchers said. But regardless of the C2 channel used, the RDAT sample parses responses using a command handler to determine the course of action to take. These include the ability to execute commands, upload and download to and from the C2, take screenshots, restart its processes and delete itself.
Geographical target distribution according to our telemetry for the first few hours of the attack. The malware used in the attacks encrypts the files and also drops and executes a decryptor tool. The request for $600 in Bitcoin is displayed along with the wallet.
Earlier today, our products detected and successfully blocked a large number of ransomware attacks around the world. In these attacks, data is encrypted with the extension “.WCRY” added to the filenames. Our analysis indicates the attack, dubbed “WannaCry”, is initiated through an SMBv2 remote code execution in Microsoft Windows.
This exploit (codenamed “EternalBlue”) has been made available on the internet through the Shadowbrokers dump on April 14th, 2017 and patched by Microsoft on March 14. Unfortunately, it appears that many organizations have not yet installed the patch. $[para].