As we can see in the picture above this samples does not use any download function because it uses SQL Server to host the binary content and then just uses an SQL command to retrieve the content and save to disk.  The strings are encoded with base64 and encrypted with Triple DES algorithm in order to hide the text related to the main actions of the malware. $[para].
Record all the keystrokes, make screenshots. Retrieve e-mail messages and attachments from Microsoft Outlook and from reachable mail servers using previously obtained credentials. Execute additional encrypted modules according to a pre-defined schedule.
However, this time the attacker has new targets. According to our telemetry and the characteristics of the analyzed spear-phishing documents, we believe the attackers are now targeting financial organizations in Russia, and biological and chemical threat prevention laboratories in Europe and Ukraine. They continue to use a non-binary executable infection vector and obfuscated scripts to evade detection.
RaaS belongs to a huge market that has been thriving for many years concerning cybercrime. Criminals can purchase hosting services, distribution avenues (exploits, phishing), crypting services (to hide the malware from AV detection,) you name it. $[para].
The code was pretty simple; it just used the function GetAsyncKeyState in order to check the state of each key and then logged it as necessary. Most of the keyloggers were not using any obfuscation to hide the targets, helping in the identification of such attacks. $[para].
That is 22.49% more than during the same period in 2015, when 261,000 users were attacked, and 2.7% more than in 2014. It is hard to say if such an increase has been provoked by criminal interest in the holiday season; however, data on the dynamics of attacks shows that just like phishing scammers, financial malware operators tried to connect their activity to particular dates. $[para].
$[para]. Top 100 organizations, by sphere of activity, targeted by phishers in August 2012. Based on anti-phishing component detections.
The above is an example of malware pretending to be an image file. Some even use “Steam Guard” as the binary’s file name to make it more believable. However, with Joe’s experience and some comment spam I’ve seen before, we’d be more surprised if malware proponents are not on Steam.
Despite the diversity of the groups targeting the Syrian opposition, they share general features: uneven or low technical sophistication plus good social engineering and well-informed targeting. These elements are characteristic of the majority of malware and phishing operations targeting the Syrian opposition over the past several years. $[para].
Researchers became aware of the activities of the RTM group in December 2015. Since then, phishing emails distributing the trojan have been sent to potential victims with admirable persistence. $[para].
Let's imagine that we are not aware of the RTM infection on the computer. The only evidence we have is the fact of compromise, which resulted in a theft of funds. This will make the analysis process more interesting and applicable to other cases as well.
Where do we begin our search? Let's recall Jesse Kornblum's paradox: "Malware can hide, but it must run". A good start will be to look for potential persistence mechanisms that can be used by the malware to restart after reboot.
Why do we need that? There is an NTUSER.DAT file in each user's directory, while there is only one SOFTWARE for the entire system, so in this case it is important to get the record number of a particular file. In general, you do not have to stick to the Sleuth Kit at all; there are more convenient tools like FTK Imager, a free tool, which can be used not only to create forensic images, but also to examine their contents.
There are quite a lot of artefacts in Windows that can indicate that executable files have been run. Let's keep working with the registry, this time with the SYSTEM file. To extract data from it, you can use RegRipper again.
The LocalDataNT directory, which has quite interesting files inside, was created even earlier. Let's take a look, at WinPrintSvc.exe, for instance. $[para].
Apparently, this is the source of Remote Utilities. Let's see if the detected RAT was launched. This time we will use the AmCache.hve registry file from C:\Windows\AppCompat\Programs (RegRipper will help us get data from it in a comprehensible format).
PLEAD’s toolset includes the self-named PLEAD backdoor and the DRIGO exfiltration tool. PLEAD uses spear-phishing emails to deliver and install their backdoor, either as an attachment or through links to cloud storage services. Some of the cloud storage accounts used to deliver PLEAD are also used as drop off points for exfiltrated documents stolen by DRIGO.
Shrouded Crossbow employs three BIFROST-derived backdoors: BIFROSE, KIVARS, and XBOW. Like PLEAD, Shrouded Crossbow uses spear-phishing emails with backdoor-laden attachments that utilize the RTLO technique and accompanied by decoy documents. $[para].
The group takes a number of steps to gain access to a victim’s device and then deploys several different attack tools, as follows. The group delivers a malicious Office lure document to victims, most likely via a spear-phishing email. These lure documents use titles with government, military, and diplomatic themes, and the file names are written in English or Cyrillic languages.
For instance, the malware directly connects to a C2 server using an embedded IP address or domain name, as opposed to previous variants where it made use of at least two dead drop resolvers (DDRs) or web services, such as forums and code sharing platforms, to fetch the real C2 IP address or domain. Interestingly, for this campaign the attackers didn’t limit themselves merely to sending spear-phishing emails, but actively engaged victims through multiple emails, persuading them to open the decoy to increase the chances of compromise. Furthermore, aside from using Python-based implants throughout the intrusion cycle, in both new and old variants, this was the first time that we had seen the actor dropping PE binaries as intermediate stages to load Evilnum, while using advanced techniques to evade and bypass security products.