The NSO Group's software can read text messages and emails and track calls and contacts. It can even record sounds, collect passwords and trace the whereabouts of the phone user.\u201d (Source: The New York Times). Dropbox Prompts Certain Users To Change Their Passwords.
Basically, they used some simple social engineering. They accomplished this by calling a lot of people and eventually obtaining a few passwords for accounts with fewer accesses. The attackers then worked their way into compromising accounts with more accesses and reset the passwords for 45 of the targeted accounts and logged in.
The internet of things (IoT) cameras (not to be confused with the Blink open-source browser engine), consist of a wireless camera and monitoring system for consumers. The flaws could enable attackers without access to the devices to view camera footage, listen to audio output and hijack the device for use in a botnet, Tenable researchers disclosed on Tuesday. Amazon has been notified of the flaws and has rolled out patches.
The analysis of memory dumps and Windows registries from affected machines allowed us to restore both Meterpreter and Mimikatz. These tools were used to collect passwords of system administrators and for the remote administration of infected hosts. In order to get the PowerShell payload used by the attackers from the memory dumps, we used the following BASH commands.
When a user on an infected machine visits one of the sites on the list, the malware controls the browser's connection with the server. Malicious users can obtain usernames and passwords entered by the user, and modify webpage content. All of the data entered by the user will be entered onto the modified webpage and transmitted to malicious users.
Neverquest uses the same self-replication mechanisms as Bredolab. Neverquest's features include a collection of data used to access FTP servers via the following programs. $[para].
Conclusions. Our research revealed long-term oriented large scale cyberespionage campaign of a criminal group with Chinese origins. These attacks are not new, many other security researchers have published details of various cybercriminal groups coming from China.
Collect filesystem and network share information, build directory listings, search and retrieve files by mask provided by the C&C server. Collect information about installed software, most notably Oracle DB, RAdmin, IM software including Mail.Ru agent, drivers and software for Windows Mobile, Nokia, SonyEricsson, HTC, Android phones, USB drives. Extract browsing history from Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera.
Their main purpose is to collect general information about target system which helps locate and identify the infected machine, estimate potential value of current computer data and define which other modules should be pushed next. Also, these modules collect initial easy-to-get type of information such as browser history, browser cached credentials and FTP client settings. $[para].
$[para]. Gathers startup information, select environment variables and values %windir%, %username%, %userdomain%, %computername%). Opens target directory c:windowsprefetch, records all entries in the directory of applications recently run along with timestamp, i.e.
Most probably, it\u2019s created for further data logs. DLL collects a range of information about the computer (including the browsers history). This data is written to the memory, compressed with Zlib deflate() function which also performs some XOR operations on it encoded with base64 algorithm and sent by the HTTP POST request to the C&C server."
What about the back-end structure, the actual actors in this ecosystem? Thankfully we do get the chance to look at it thanks to the relentless work of dedicated researchers such as @kafeine. But sometimes, there are still some things that are left unclear or may confuse some of us (including the author of this article).
$[para]. The research that we are publishing today is perhaps the biggest malware research paper ever. It is certainly the most complex malware research effort in the history of our company and we hope that it sets new standards for what anti-virus and anti-malware research means today.
Windows users were familiar with those highly despicable techniques ten years ago (RogueAV or FakeAV). These are typically the works of greedy affiliates trying to drive the most leads they can in order to collect large commissions off various PUPs. $[para].
Gossi the Dog), in a posting this week. He said that in August, he became aware that public exploits had been made available and that cybercriminals including APTs were actively scanning the internet for the issue (using public tools like the Shodan search engine). A corresponding report from Bad Packets that month indicated that major cyberattacks could be imminent.
These indicators are very often included in threat reports, which are often skimmed by readers. Even if a document providing details of a research project does not have a dedicated Indicators of Compromise section, a reader can always extract useful data (information on the attributes found in infected systems) from the text, present the data extracted in any of the formats described above and import it into a security solution. Our latest researches with indicators of compromise:.
Worldwide distribution of devices with the SYNful knock backdoor. The latest information on the number of potentially compromised devices is available through the link https://synfulscan.shadowserver.org/stats/. A second Cisco vulnerability, CVE-2015-6389 enables attackers to access some sensitive data, such as the password file, system logs, and Cisco PCA database information, and to modify data, run internal executables and potentially make the system unstable or inaccessible.
Very often, these leaked databases contain corporate email addresses, including those of telecommunication companies.  Further information on the emerging attack vectors based on the harvesting of Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) can be obtained using Kaspersky Lab's customer-specific Intelligence Reporting services. Threats targeting CSP/ISP subscribers.
Successful Proof-Of-Concept attacks on USIM cards. Recent research shows that the cryptography of 3G/4G USIM cards is no longer unbreakable. Successful attacks allow SIM card cloning, call spoofing and the interception of SMS.
Payloads stored in the ADS data of desktop.ini. After the additional modules are hidden, the malware will launch itself by using DLL Search Order Hijacking. We have observed various processes being used by Guildma at this step; in this version of the malware, it uses ExtExport.exe, which is related to Internet Explorer.